ADHD in children and young people
ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) is a condition where the brain works differently to most people. Children and young people with ADHD may have trouble with things like concentrating and sitting still. There are ways to help manage the symptoms of ADHD.

Information:

There is separate information about ADHD in adults.



Symptoms of ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
Symptoms of ADHD usually start before the age of 12. They involve a person’s ability to pay attention to things (being inattentive), having high energy levels (being hyperactive) and their ability to control their impulses (being impulsive).

A child or young person may show signs of being inattentive, such as:

being easily distracted
finding it hard to listen to what people are saying or to follow instructions
forgetting everyday tasks, like brushing their teeth or putting on socks
They may show signs of being hyperactive and impulsive, including:

having high energy levels
fidgeting or tapping their hands and feet
talking noisily
feeling restless, or getting up and moving around when they’re supposed to sit still
finding it hard to wait their turn, or interrupting conversations
Most children and young people with ADHD have symptoms of both the inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive type. Some only show signs of one type.

ADHD is thought to be recognised less often in girls than boys. This may be because girls with ADHD more commonly have inattentive symptoms and these can be harder to recognise.

Information:

Many children are easily distracted, impulsive and have high energy levels, particularly if they’re under the age of 5. This does not mean they have ADHD. It could be a sign of something else, like being tired, anxious or stressed.

Getting help for ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
If you’re worried that ADHD may be affecting your child, talk to one of their teachers. An older child or teenager may choose to speak to a teacher themselves.

The teacher will usually make a referral to the school’s special educational needs co-ordinator (SENCO).

The SENCO can discuss support in the classroom or with homework, or help with building confidence and friendships.

If you're still worried or you think your child needs additional support, you may want to make an appointment with a GP.

At the GP appointment, the doctor will ask about the child or young person’s symptoms and how these affect their life. They may consider other conditions that could cause these symptoms, such as autism, Tourette's or anxiety.

People with ADHD may often have other conditions too, such as depression, anxiety or addictions, or a learning difficulty such as dyslexia.

The GP or SENCO may recommend support groups or training for parents in your area.

Asking for an ADHD assessment
If support at home and at school is not helping your child, you may want to ask for an ADHD assessment. Speak to a GP or SENCO to request a referral for an ADHD assessment.

While waiting for a referral or assessment, the child or young person should continue to get support at home and in school. You can also contact your local council for advice, and to ask if there’s a family hub in your area.

Family hubs support children and young people aged 0 to 19 (and up to 25 for people with special educational needs or a disability).

What happens at an ADHD assessment
The assessment will be with one or more ADHD specialists, such as a paediatrician, or a child and adolescent psychiatrist.

The specialist will talk with you and your child to find out more about any symptoms, and about family life. They’ll also ask about your child’s development, such as how old they were when they learned to do things like walking or reading.

There may be some forms to fill in before the appointment or as part of the assessment.

The ADHD specialist will usually contact a SENCO or teacher, or both, to see how your child is doing at school.

They may also ask your child to do a computer-based test to help assess their symptoms.

If your child is diagnosed with ADHD, the specialist will discuss what this means and what happens next, including what treatment and support may be available.

Information:

Waiting times for ADHD assessments
Waiting times vary and your child may have to wait several months or years for an ADHD assessment.

You may be able to find a clinic with shorter waiting lists through your GP using the Right to Choose scheme. Read about Right to Choose and your choices in the NHS.

You can ask for an NHS appointment at any clinic, including a private clinic, if it provides ADHD services for the NHS in England.