If some foods and drinks seem to affect their symptoms, keep a food and drink diary to see what these are. You can share this information with their school.
Support at school and at home
Discuss with a SENCO what adjustments or support may help at home and school.

This may include:

splitting up tasks, like doing homework or sitting down to eat, into 15 to 20 minute slots with a break in between each slot
giving clear and simple instructions one at a time in a calm voice
writing a to-do list and putting it somewhere easy to see
giving praise when a child or young person does well, or making a reward chart
Medicine
ADHD medicines must be started and monitored by an ADHD specialist. This includes:

medicine to help with ADHD symptoms, such as methylphenidate
melatonin for problems sleeping, when other methods for improving sleep have not worked
Children and teenagers may need to try more than one medicine to find out what works for them.

A GP may be able to take over prescribing ADHD medicines, but only if there is a “shared care agreement” between the GP and the ADHD specialist. To find out more, talk to your ADHD specialist or GP. Not everyone with ADHD needs to or wants to take medicine.

Talking therapies
Talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) might be recommended to help a child or young person with ADHD with problem solving and expressing their feelings.

ADHD and mental health
People with ADHD may be more likely to have mental health issues, such as anxiety or depression.

They are also at higher risk of suicide.

If you're concerned about a child or young person, help and support is available right now if they need it. They do not have to struggle with difficult feelings alone.

Find out about mental health support for children and young people

What causes attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
The cause of ADHD is not always known. ADHD may be caused by genetic differences and often runs in families.

There are several other things linked to ADHD, including being born premature (before 37 weeks of pregnancy), having epilepsy, a brain injury or being autistic.

Some people with ADHD call themselves neurodivergent. Neurodiversity describes the range of different ways our brains work.

Help and support for ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
If your child or teenager has ADHD, there are ways you can help them manage their symptoms with support from their school or a doctor.

There are ADHD support groups locally and online.

There are also a number of organisations and charities that offer information and support about ADHD.